---
layout: post
title: "ipc"
subtitle: "linux"
date: 2020-04-10 15:29:00
author: "Deetch"
header-img: "img/home-bg-o.jpg"
catalog: true
tags:
    - linux
---

> "Let's go"


## 基本概念

## POSIX semaphore vs XSI semaphore

One marked difference between the System V and POSIX semaphore implementations is that in System V you can control how much the semaphore count can be increased or decreased; whereas in POSIX, the semaphore count is increased and decreased by 1.

POSIX semaphores do not allow manipulation of semaphore permissions, whereas System V semaphores allow you to change the permissions of semaphores to a subset of the original permission.

Initialization and creation of semaphores is atomic (from the user's perspective) in POSIX semaphores.

From a usage perspective, System V semaphores are clumsy, while POSIX semaphores are straight-forward

The scalability of POSIX semaphores (using unnamed semaphores) is much higher than System V semaphores. In a user/client scenario, where each user creates her own instances of a server, it would be better to use POSIX semaphores.

System V semaphores, when creating a semaphore object, creates an array of semaphores whereas POSIX semaphores create just one. Because of this feature, semaphore creation (memory footprint-wise) is costlier in System V semaphores when compared to POSIX semaphores.

It has been said that POSIX semaphore performance is better than System V-based semaphores.

POSIX semaphores provide a mechanism for process-wide semaphores rather than system-wide semaphores. So, if a developer forgets to close the semaphore, on process exit the semaphore is cleaned up. In simple terms, POSIX semaphores provide a mechanism for non-persistent semaphores.

posix信号量在进程退出后会维持原样，异常退出时无法恢复现场；
xsi信号量可以设置undo，来恢复现场；
